Engaging Cluster DocumentationLogging into Engaging Open OnDemand :: Engaging Cluster DocumentationEngaging Cluster Documentation1. Logging into the clusterLogging into Engaging Open OnDemandLogging into FastXLogging in via sshLogging in from a Linux or OSX hostLogging in from a Windows host2. Replacing or Adding an SSH KeySetup SSH Key Pair Authentication3. Slurm1. Cluster workflow2. Slurm Job Scheduler3. sbatch4. srun & salloc5. Slurm Job Arrays6. Determining Resources For Your Job4. Software1. Loading Software Modules2. Python Packages3. R Packages4. Compiling Software For Personal Use5. Compiling Miniconda For Personal Use6. Running Paraview in Client Server Mode via Slurm5. Storage1. The Home directory2. The Lustre File System3. NFS StorageFile Permissions6. Virtual Environments1. Jupyter Notebooks2. Python Packages3. Python Virtual Environments4. Anaconda Virtual Environments7. Best PracticesLustre Best Practices8. Frequently Asked QuestionsImprove this page>1. Logging into the cluster> Logging into Engaging Open OnDemandLogging into Engaging Open OnDemand1. Start by going toengaging-ood.mit.eduin your web browser.2. Select one of the Single Sign On authenticaion options.3. Select the institution your Engaging account email is associated with.The email associated with your Engaging account is your MIT Kerberos account.4. Follow the authentication procedure required by the selected institution and upon success you will be redirected to the Engaging Open OnDemand Portal.If you have issues with this process, please contactorcd-help-engaging@mit.eduExampleHere are the steps illustrated if you are using the “Globus” option and are an MIT user:1. At the Engaging OOD login page, select “Authenticate with Globus:2. Select “Massachusettes Institute of Technology” and click “Log On”.3. Authenticate via MIT Touchstone.4. Welcome to OOD!1. Logging into the clusterLogging into FastX