Engaging Cluster DocumentationFile Permissions :: Engaging Cluster DocumentationEngaging Cluster Documentation1. Logging into the clusterLogging into Engaging Open OnDemandLogging into FastXLogging in via sshLogging in from a Linux or OSX hostLogging in from a Windows host2. Replacing or Adding an SSH KeySetup SSH Key Pair Authentication3. Slurm1. Cluster workflow2. Slurm Job Scheduler3. sbatch4. srun & salloc5. Slurm Job Arrays6. Determining Resources For Your Job4. Software1. Loading Software Modules2. Python Packages3. R Packages4. Compiling Software For Personal Use5. Compiling Miniconda For Personal Use6. Running Paraview in Client Server Mode via Slurm5. Storage1. The Home directory2. The Lustre File System3. NFS StorageFile Permissions6. Virtual Environments1. Jupyter Notebooks2. Python Packages3. Python Virtual Environments4. Anaconda Virtual Environments7. Best PracticesLustre Best Practices8. Frequently Asked QuestionsImprove this page>5. Storage> File PermissionsFile PermissionsBy default, all home directories are world readable, which means uses can go between each other’s directories without having to change the permissions, but users cannot copy (write permission) or run (execute permission) files unless the permissions are modified by the user who owns them.Changing file permissions is the correct way to let other lab mates access the files in your home directory, but it should be done with full paths and not with wild cards. For example, if you wanted to share the file “test.py” in your home directory, you would want to do:chmod [options] /home/[user]/test.pyinstead of something likechmod [options] *Using wild cards such as * always include hidden folders and files, such as your .ssh keys.You can change the entire permissions of subdirectories (like /home/[user]/test_directory) but when you change the permissions of your entire home directory, (/home/[user]) you will change the permissions of the hidden files and subdirectories in that home directory, which include the hidden folder that your ssh keys. If this hidden .ssh folder has it’s permissions changed, 9 times out of 10 it will break your ssh command to log into the cluster, since ssh is picky about the file permissions set on ssh keys.You can use thechmodcommand to limit access to files and directories.Seeherefor an introduction to file permissions and thechmodcommand.You can also usethis websitefor an interactive GUI that will help direct you to the chmod command options that are correct for the intentions you have for sharing your files with others.3. NFS Storage6. Virtual Environments