Engaging Cluster Documentation1. The Home directory :: Engaging Cluster DocumentationEngaging Cluster Documentation1. Logging into the clusterLogging into Engaging Open OnDemandLogging into FastXLogging in via sshLogging in from a Linux or OSX hostLogging in from a Windows host2. Replacing or Adding an SSH KeySetup SSH Key Pair Authentication3. Slurm1. Cluster workflow2. Slurm Job Scheduler3. sbatch4. srun & salloc5. Slurm Job Arrays6. Determining Resources For Your Job4. Software1. Loading Software Modules2. Python Packages3. R Packages4. Compiling Software For Personal Use5. Compiling Miniconda For Personal Use6. Running Paraview in Client Server Mode via Slurm5. Storage1. The Home directory2. The Lustre File System3. NFS StorageFile Permissions6. Virtual Environments1. Jupyter Notebooks2. Python Packages3. Python Virtual Environments4. Anaconda Virtual Environments7. Best PracticesLustre Best Practices8. Frequently Asked QuestionsImprove this page>5. Storage> 1. The Home directory1. The Home directoryThe Home Directory (/home)The first type of storage is located in/home/[username]or~/. This is a users home directory and it is Network File System (NFS) storage.All users have 100GB of space in their home directories. There is a hard quota on this and it cannot be increased.This directory is backed up! If a user accidentally deletes something or data gets corrupted, they should reach out toorcd-help-engaging@mit.edufor help.This space should be used for important files.The Magic Backup/homeuses a snapshot technology that actually keeps mulitple versions of files and directories around.There are 10x points in time that are captured as snapshots:If the current time is 2021-01-12:30 (in 24 hour time, so 12:30 in the afternoon).hourly.2021-01-12_1205hourly.2021-01-12_1105hourly.2021-01-12_1005hourly.2021-01-12_0905hourly.2021-01-12_0805hourly.2021-01-12_0705daily.2021-01-12_0010daily.2021-01-11_0010weekly.2021-01-10_0015weekly.2021-01-03_0015Every directory in/homehas its own hidden.snapshotdirectory!No matter what directory you are in, you can access the snapshot of the contents of that directory by going to.snapshot.Let’s say a user is in/home/[username]/myproject/srcand in that directory they just deleted the file “important_file.xml”. They can easily get it back from the most recent snapshot by running the commandcp .snapshot/hourly.2019-11-12_1205/important_file.xml .Users can also explore the.snapshotdirectories by cd’ing into them withcd .snapshot.Remember that even thoughls -lawill usually show files and directories that start with “.”,.snapshotdirectories are a special case. Even though you cannot see them, they do exist!If you have any questions or problems recovering files from .snapshot, please emailorcd-help-engaging@mit.edu5. Storage2. The Lustre File System