Engaging Cluster Documentation6. Running Paraview in Client Server Mode via Slurm :: Engaging Cluster DocumentationEngaging Cluster Documentation1. Logging into the clusterLogging into Engaging Open OnDemandLogging into FastXLogging in via sshLogging in from a Linux or OSX hostLogging in from a Windows host2. Replacing or Adding an SSH KeySetup SSH Key Pair Authentication3. Slurm1. Cluster workflow2. Slurm Job Scheduler3. sbatch4. srun & salloc5. Slurm Job Arrays6. Determining Resources For Your Job4. Software1. Loading Software Modules2. Python Packages3. R Packages4. Compiling Software For Personal Use5. Compiling Miniconda For Personal Use6. Running Paraview in Client Server Mode via Slurm5. Storage1. The Home directory2. The Lustre File System3. NFS StorageFile Permissions6. Virtual Environments1. Jupyter Notebooks2. Python Packages3. Python Virtual Environments4. Anaconda Virtual Environments7. Best PracticesLustre Best Practices8. Frequently Asked QuestionsImprove this page>4. Software> 6. Running Paraview in Client Server Mode via Slurm6. Running Paraview in Client Server Mode via SlurmIn this example, we are running the paraview server on a compute node with 4 cores and basic memory. You may need to adjust the salloc command flags as necessary for your job.For example: salloc -N 1 -n 4 –mem=64GB –partition=[partition] –time=2:00:00Open 2 terminals on your local computer.Leave both of these terminals running for the duration of your work with paraview!In Terminal 1 (ssh shell on a headnode) we are going to start the paraview server. Run the following commands in order:salloc -N 1 -n 4 --constraint=centos7 --partition=sched_mit_hill --time=2:00:00module add paraview/5.10.1_headless_serverhostname<- remember what node you are running onmpiexec -np 4 pvserver --mpi --force-offscreen-renderingwe are running pvserver in a 4 core process to take advantage of parallel processing, that is why the srun command has -n4, change this as you see fit.In Terminal 2, connect to eofe7 with-L 11111:[node name]:11111added to your ssh command. Replace “[node name]” with the name of the node you have the server running on (hostnamecommand output from previous step). Your ssh command should be similar to:ssh -L 11111:[nodename]:11111 [username]@eofe7.mit.eduNow you can start paraview on your local machine and go to File > Connect… Then click “add server” and set the options like so:name: eofe cluster
server type: client/server
host: localhost
port: 11111Note: Any loss in internet connection may break the tunnel between your local paraview client and the cluster.5. Compiling Miniconda For Personal Use5. Storage