Engaging Cluster DocumentationSetup SSH Key Pair Authentication :: Engaging Cluster DocumentationEngaging Cluster Documentation1. Logging into the clusterLogging into Engaging Open OnDemandLogging into FastXLogging in via sshLogging in from a Linux or OSX hostLogging in from a Windows host2. Replacing or Adding an SSH KeySetup SSH Key Pair Authentication3. Slurm1. Cluster workflow2. Slurm Job Scheduler3. sbatch4. srun & salloc5. Slurm Job Arrays6. Determining Resources For Your Job4. Software1. Loading Software Modules2. Python Packages3. R Packages4. Compiling Software For Personal Use5. Compiling Miniconda For Personal Use6. Running Paraview in Client Server Mode via Slurm5. Storage1. The Home directory2. The Lustre File System3. NFS StorageFile Permissions6. Virtual Environments1. Jupyter Notebooks2. Python Packages3. Python Virtual Environments4. Anaconda Virtual Environments7. Best PracticesLustre Best Practices8. Frequently Asked QuestionsImprove this page>2. Replacing or Adding an SSH Key> Setup SSH Key Pair AuthenticationSetup SSH Key Pair AuthenticationTo do this, on your local machine, run the command:ssh-keygen -t rsaand follow the instructions to generate your new SSH key pair. If providing a passphrase to secure your key, make sure you remember it since you will not be able to access your key without this passphrase. Please note that this passphrase is tied to the SSH key pair specifically and isNOTtied to the engaging cluster. This passphrase is solely to secure your private SSH key file.On Linux systems this will place the key here when using the defaults at the prompts:/home/[user]/.ssh/id_rsa.pubYou can then login to one of the Engaging head-nodes using your MIT Kerberos credentials. Once on a head-node, append the contents of the new public key on your local machine to the directory/home/[username]/.ssh/authorized_keyson the cluster.DO NOT REMOVE ANYTHING ALREADY IN THEauthorized_keysFILE2. Replacing or Adding an SSH Key3. Slurm