Engaging Cluster Documentation5. Storage :: Engaging Cluster DocumentationEngaging Cluster Documentation1. Logging into the clusterLogging into Engaging Open OnDemandLogging into FastXLogging in via sshLogging in from a Linux or OSX hostLogging in from a Windows host2. Replacing or Adding an SSH KeySetup SSH Key Pair Authentication3. Slurm1. Cluster workflow2. Slurm Job Scheduler3. sbatch4. srun & salloc5. Slurm Job Arrays6. Determining Resources For Your Job4. Software1. Loading Software Modules2. Python Packages3. R Packages4. Compiling Software For Personal Use5. Compiling Miniconda For Personal Use6. Running Paraview in Client Server Mode via Slurm5. Storage1. The Home directory2. The Lustre File System3. NFS StorageFile Permissions6. Virtual Environments1. Jupyter Notebooks2. Python Packages3. Python Virtual Environments4. Anaconda Virtual Environments7. Best PracticesLustre Best Practices8. Frequently Asked QuestionsImprove this page> 5. Storage5. StorageOverviewAs part of having an account on the Engaging Cluster, users are allocated space to store things like data and programs. There are 3 areas that users have by default to store data on the cluster, each with their own strengths (and weaknesses).It is important to understand the different types of storage and use them as they are intended.The 3 different areas for storage on the Engaging cluster:1. The Home directoryA small, but safe place.2. The Lustre File SystemA fast and large but specific place3. NFS StorageLonger term storage with specificsFile PermissionsManage access to your files6. Running Paraview in Client Server Mode via Slurm1. The Home directory