Engaging Cluster Documentation6. Virtual Environments :: Engaging Cluster DocumentationEngaging Cluster Documentation1. Logging into the clusterLogging into Engaging Open OnDemandLogging into FastXLogging in via sshLogging in from a Linux or OSX hostLogging in from a Windows host2. Replacing or Adding an SSH KeySetup SSH Key Pair Authentication3. Slurm1. Cluster workflow2. Slurm Job Scheduler3. sbatch4. srun & salloc5. Slurm Job Arrays6. Determining Resources For Your Job4. Software1. Loading Software Modules2. Python Packages3. R Packages4. Compiling Software For Personal Use5. Compiling Miniconda For Personal Use6. Running Paraview in Client Server Mode via Slurm5. Storage1. The Home directory2. The Lustre File System3. NFS StorageFile Permissions6. Virtual Environments1. Jupyter Notebooks2. Python Packages3. Python Virtual Environments4. Anaconda Virtual Environments7. Best PracticesLustre Best Practices8. Frequently Asked QuestionsImprove this page> 6. Virtual EnvironmentsUsing Virtual EnvironmentsInteractive Virtual EnvironmentsScripted Virtual Environments6. Virtual EnvironmentsUsing Virtual EnvironmentsThere are a few different types of Virtual Environments for running workflows on the engaging cluster. The virtual environment you need for your workflow will depend on multiple factors, including but not limited to:Language your workflow is written in (python, ruby, C++, java, etc)Dependency packages your workflow needsSize of your workflowPermissions needed inside your workflowInteractive Virtual EnvironmentsInteractive virtual environments are interactive in the sense that they use a GUI or web interface in conjunction with the cluster’s command line. On the engaging cluster, there are interactive Jupyter Notebook Environments that use a GUI web interface for users to run their workflows.Jupyter NotebooksJupyter Notebooks extends the console-based approach to interactive computing in a qualitatively new direction, providing a web-based application suitable for capturing the whole computation process: developing, documenting, and executing code, as well as communicating the results.These can be launched from the engaging-ood portal, which the instructions for accessing that are availablehere.There are two forms of Jupyter Notebooks on Engaging OOD found under “Interactive Apps” or “My Interactive Sessions”:Graph-tool Jupyter Notebook:This is a notebook with a graph tool that uses a small amount of cores and memory.Jupyter Notebook:This is a more configurable Jupyter Notebook, with several customizable options available for to expand its functionality:Additional Modules: Allows you to preload modules into the Jupyter Notebook as it is launched from Engaging OODAnaconda Module Selection: Allows selection of system-wide Anaconda module usage with the Jupyter NotebookCustom Conda Environment: Allows use of an existing conda environment inside the Jupyter NotebookScripted Virtual EnvironmentsScripted virtual environments on the engaging cluster require a user’s workflow to be scripted, as in the job the user is running in their workflow uses a piece of code, whether it be Python, Ruby, C++, Java, or any other scripting language.Python Pip:Using Python’s pip feature is the most common and the simpliest form of virtual environment available on the cluster. However, can only be used with Python workflows, since pip is Python’s package installer.Python Virtual Environments:A python virtual environment is a cooperatively isolated runtime environment that allows users and to install and upgrade Python distribution packages without interfering with the behaviour of other Python applications running on the same system. They essentially allow you to create a “virtual” isolated Python installation and install packages into that virtual installation. When you switch projects, you can simply create a new virtual environment and not have to worry about breaking the packages installed in the other environments. It is always recommended to use a virtual environment while developing Python applications.Anaconda: Also referred to as ‘conda’, Anaconda is a virtual environment that is built off of Python that creates a contained virtual environment that allows users to run workflows that use software other than Python based modules. Both Pip and Python Virtual Environments require the software to be Python modules or Python based, where as Conda allows software that is not only Python based to be installed in a virtual environment.1. Jupyter NotebooksUsing Jupyter Notebooks on Engaging OOD2. Python PackagesInstalling Python packages locally3. Python Virtual EnvironmentsUsing Python Virtual Environments4. Anaconda Virtual EnvironmentsUsing Anaconda Virtual EnvironmentsFile Permissions1. Jupyter Notebooks